What is REST?
Representational State Transfer (REST) is a software architecture that imposes conditions on how an API should work. REST was initially created as a guideline to manage communication on a complex network like the internet. You can use REST-based architecture to support high-performing and reliable communication at scale. You can easily implement and modify it, bringing visibility and cross-platform portability to any API system.

API developers can design APIs using several different architectures. APIs that follow the REST architectural style are called REST APIs. Web services that implement REST architecture are called RESTful web services. The term RESTful API generally refers to RESTful web APIs. However, you can use the terms REST API and RESTful API interchangeably.

What are the benefits of RESTful APIs?
RESTful APIs include the following benefits:

Scalability
Systems that implement REST APIs can scale efficiently because REST optimizes client-server interactions. Statelessness removes server load because the server does not have to retain past client request information. Well-managed caching partially or completely eliminates some client-server interactions. All these features support scalability without causing communication bottlenecks that reduce performance.

Flexibility
RESTful web services support total client-server separation. They simplify and decouple various server components so that each part can evolve independently. Platform or technology changes at the server application do not affect the client application. The ability to layer application functions increases flexibility even further. For example, developers can make changes to the database layer without rewriting the application logic.

Independence
REST APIs are independent of the technology used. You can write both client and server applications in various programming languages without affecting the API design. You can also change the underlying technology on either side without affecting the communication.